Hello, everybody.
This is the second of
our two Xsan sessions,
Xsan In Depth.
Basically, I'm Greg Vaughan,
and I'm going to be talking about
a lot of the same material that
was in the overview session.
How many of you were here
for the overview session?
Okay, good.
I'm going to cover some
of the same material,
but from a slightly
different perspective.
I won't have any product prices up here.
Instead,
a little code samples and hopefully
some more technical information.
I'm going to start actually going
over some of the same stuff with
the different types of file systems,
just to separate them
out and make it clear,
sort of, in terms of file systems,
what makes a SAN file system
different from other types.
I'm going to talk specifically about
Xsan and sort of the communication
protocols and how it's really working.
I'll go into a bit of
depth on the Xsan admin.
We'll show a demo of setting up the SAN,
some of the other features of the admin.
I'll talk about how the volumes work
in terms of when you're writing apps,
there's some different characteristics
both from local volumes and network
volumes you need to be aware of.
And then finally,
I'll talk specifically about
some developer APIs that can
be used in the applications to
make them work better with Xsan,
be more Xsan aware.
So starting out with the
different file system types.
Tom mentioned direct-attached storage,
which is basically your
traditional local hard drive,
just some new fancy names for it.
The way in which a local hard drive
works is you've got your file system.
The drive's presenting
just an array of blocks.
The job of the file system is to
organize that data using the catalog,
present a higher-level
API up to applications.
So in a typical diagram,
you've got basically
at the high-level API,
you're dealing in terms of files.
The application's going to open a file,
write to a file, use file offsets.
The file system's going to translate
that to the blocks on the disk.
This is the technology that's
been around for decades.
But of course,
a block-level device can't be shared
by multiple computers because there's
no way to keep the catalog in sync
between the multiple computers.
So this early limitation got solved
by the network-attached storage,
or the file server.
Network-attached storage basically
is just taking the exact same file
server and putting it into a box.
So the underlying technology
is exactly the same.
The idea here is you're going
to take the high-level call,
ship it across the network to the server,
and the server will perform the action.
So you've got the same diagram.
You're making the call
at the file system layer.
The network file system
directly mirrors that call.
And on the server,
when it makes the call,
you're doing the offsets to the disk.
This will allow you
basically to have the call.
You have the volume integrity,
but at the price of funneling
all the data over the network
to the server and all funneling
it through the single machine.
The other slight thing about
that in dealing with file servers
is when you scale them up,
you tend to have problems with
the different types of requests,
especially metadata-intensive requests,
doing large directory
listings and so forth,
causes the server to load catalog blocks.
And so, you have to have a lot
of data that blocks off,
which can interfere with the
streaming of data off the hard drive.
And conversely,
those metadata requests can be
blocked behind the large IOs.
And when you're dealing
with heavy file servers,
you see the big latencies and, like,
opening up a little directory listing.
And those are really hard to overcome,
those sort of scalability
limitations in file servers.
RAID solves the other
part of the problem.
You're trying to overcome the
limitations of disk speed by
combining the multiple drives.
In addition to the performance,
you're giving the reliability of
redundancy between the drives.
The important thing about the RAID is
that it's happening sort of behind
the scenes of the file system.
The file system isn't aware of that.
The RAID system is presenting the
single drive to the file system,
and the RAID is mapping the block offsets
internally to the multiple drives.
And you've got the
different RAID schemes.
I always get them confused,
especially RAID 0 and RAID 1.
But RAID 0, you've got the striping.
Mirroring provides the redundancy.
And then with RAID 5,
you've got both the performance
of writing to multiple drives
plus the redundant data so
that if any one drive fails,
it can be rebuilt easily without
losing access to your data.
In addition to the underlying RAID,
you've got software RAID,
which happens at the driver
level to distribute your data
out to the multiple drives.
Once you've done that,
then the RAID box will further distribute
it out to the individual disks.
But the point of all this is
that the RAID system is all
happening down at the block device.
The file system is still
your traditional file system,
be it HFS or UFS,
that is just dealing with what it
sees as a single array of blocks,
and it's maintaining the same
catalog data as it always would.
So it's just doing the same
translation down to the disk offset,
and then down at the RAID level,
that's being distributed
out to the multiple disks.
So the problem with that is you're
still faced with the file server if
you want to distribute your data.
Even though you've
sped up the hard drive,
all the data is flowing
through the one file server,
and that is your big limitation.
So how the SAN file system really works
to overcome this is by separating out
the notion of the catalog from the data.
There's no real reason why the
catalog needs to live with the data.
Once you've decided a one particular
place to store your catalog,
you can have a special purpose
server that is going to just deal
with the catalog and do part of the
job of a traditional file system.
Basically, update the catalog and figure
out where on the drives the
data is going to actually live.
That way the client file systems
can talk to the metadata controller
to get the catalog information,
but then do the I/O directly
to the RAID devices.
So here's your typical Xsan setup.
Diagram's a little different
than Tom's diagrams,
but it's got all the same components.
Got your client system.
I'm only showing one here.
Couple RAID boxes and your controller.
Got everything hooked up with the fiber
channel and you've got the IP network
between the client and the controller.
In this particular case,
you've got the normal
RAID configuration for the example.
Because you've got the two controllers,
we have the two virtual disks per RAID to
a total of four LUNs that we're going
to group together to be our Xsan volume.
So the first thing you do is you
select one of the LUNs that's
going to store your catalog data.
You can decide to either dedicate that
to storing the catalog data or you can
choose to store other data alongside it.
The point is, though,
you don't want the other data
being stored with it to be
high-performance data because,
again, you'll start to run into the same
limitations you have with the
file server of the data competing
with the catalog information.
So even though you might want
to store other files there,
they should be less accessed files than
your more performance-critical ones.
So in this example,
we've chosen LUN1 to store our metadata.
Basically, in setting up your volume,
all you're really doing is
configuring the controller.
The controller is the only
machine that has a real notion
of what comprises the volume.
So, you tell the controller, basically,
what all the LUNs are
that compose the volume,
and I'll go into a bit of additional
information you can give it
in terms of how to construct
the volume out of these LUNs.
But first,
to go over our same old example,
you've got the client application
making the file-level call.
At this stage,
rather than shipping the whole
call off to a file server,
as it would in the normal
network-attached storage case,
it's just going to make a request to
find where the data for this file lives,
but keeping the actual
data on the client system.
The controller's going to read
the catalog information out of its
private metadata storage on LUN1.
And then reply with the disk
offsets back to the client.
At this point,
once the client has dedicated
storage on a particular LUN,
it can talk directly to that LUN and
stream the data across without worrying
about corrupting block offsets.
The other thing is,
because you've got a collection of LUNs,
you're not only telling
the client the offset,
but you're telling it which
LUN the actual data lives on.
But other than that,
the client has no notion of the actual
sort of file system layout on these LUNs,
how they're divided into files,
how the catalog data is structured,
or any of that.
All it knows is, this is the data,
this is the area where it wants to write
the data the application has given it.
The other thing you can do, as Tom said,
is group the LUNs into storage pools,
which has an effect very similar
to striping in software RAID.
The big difference here is even though
you're getting the same performance
effect of being able to talk to two LUNs,
rather than being handled by
a driver on the client system,
it's the metadata controller that's going
to control the access to these two LUNs.
So in this particular case,
the client's going to ask
for that same file offset,
and the controller's going to tell
it that part of this file lives on
LUN 3 and part of it lives on LUN 4.
And the client is just
smart enough to know,
"Oh, well,
if I'm writing to two different LUNs,
I can stream the data out
simultaneously." So you get the
same performance effect that
you would in software striping.
The other main job of the controller
is to handle the file locking.
With the Xsan,
because you've got the controller
handling the catalog data,
you don't need to worry about
file system-level corruption.
But still, within individual files,
you need to worry about data corruption.
That's the same as any
network file server.
And the way that is handled is,
at the application level,
you need to make locking calls.
This works.
It's the exact same locking calls
you'd use for NFS or anything else,
but it's the controller that needs to
keep track of those locks and actually
arbitrate between the different clients.
So it has that role as well.
And then other than that, as I said,
the clients are just writing data out
wherever the controller asks it to.
And to the client applications,
they just see it as one big volume,
and they don't really know
about the LUNs behind it.
The other thing, as mentioned before,
is the failover.
Basically,
how this is going to work is when the
clients notice that a controller is down,
they actually get together and
vote for a backup controller,
and you can configure it such that
it fails over in a predictable way.
The backup controller comes up,
it knows where to read
its catalog data from,
reads out the catalog data,
it's a journaled file system,
so it's able to look at the journal and
reconstruct the last few transactions,
very quickly come up and start running.
We're still doing some of
the performance benchmarks,
but as Tom said,
it should just be a few seconds.
I think 15 seconds would
be sort of the outer limit.
The important thing to
note is during this time,
15 seconds can be a long time
in terms of video streaming,
but the clients don't always need
to talk to the metadata controller.
Once they've asked the metadata
controller and gotten the
offsets for their files,
they're dealing directly
with the RAID box.
So if they're streaming a
file off the RAID box and the
metadata controller fails,
it's possible the new one will be up
again before they even notice it's gone,
before they have a need to actually
talk to the metadata controller again,
in which case you'll have to
wait a little longer for the
new one to come up again.
have uninterrupted access
to the file system,
even through a failover.
The other thing the clients need to do
is once the controller comes back up,
the new controller, of course,
doesn't know about the locks
the clients have taken out.
So when the clients see that
the new controller's up,
they need to go and tell it
about all the locks they have,
and the controller will
rebuild the lock table.
So in terms of volume configuration,
we talked about the various ways
that you can group your LUNs together
to build up your whole volume.
The first thing you're going to
need to do is to pick which LUN your
metadata is going to be stored on.
It's going to be both the catalog
information and the journal.
Technically, you can configure those
to be on different LUNs,
but usually there's no reason to do so.
So in our admin software, generally,
they'll both always be
stored on the same LUN.
The other thing you're going to do is
decide whether you want to store other
data files along with the catalog data.
Basically,
the catalog data doesn't take much room,
so you can either partition your
RAID in such a way that you have
a very small LUN and make it
exclusive for the catalog data,
or if you have a larger LUN,
you may choose to store
other files alongside it.
[Transcript missing]
And like I said, it's not very big.
Ten million files will probably only use
up about 10 gig of space for a catalog.
So you don't need a lot of storage there.
But high-performance
storage is very important.
So once you've got your
metadata controller,
the question for the
rest of the storage is,
how are you going to group
it into storage pools?
Certainly, if you take all your LUNs and
combine them into storage pools,
the idea is the client could
talk to all the LUNs at once and
theoretically get very high performance.
There's a few limitations to that.
One is you want to make sure all the
LUNs have the same characteristics.
Because it's effectively
like software striping,
when you've combined
all these LUNs together,
you're really going to get sort
of the smallest LUN and the
slowest LUN will be the gating
factor for the whole storage pool.
So you really want to take
all your identical LUNs and
group them into storage pools.
[Transcript missing]
And the other side effect of that is
that you are going to end up then with
some storage pools that are faster and
other storage pools that are slower.
[Transcript missing]
So now I'll talk a bit about our
administration software and how
that works and how you set up a
SAN using the administration software.
We've tried,
certainly as we do in all our products,
to consolidate this and sort of make
it easy and understandable as possible.
Although,
certainly a SAN is a complicated thing
and there's lots of different aspects.
There's always trade-offs then
in terms of giving access to
functionality versus making it sort
of easy and straightforward to use.
So here's just a few slide shots
of what a setup looks like.
The first step in the setup is to,
you've got to define all the machines
that are going to be part of your SAN,
both the clients and the controllers.
It'll find these
machines over rendezvous.
It actually detects,
asks each machine what LUNs it's
hooked up to so it can decide
which machines are actually on
the same fiber channel network.
And then it'll come up.
It'll allow you to select
these machines and say,
yes, these are the machines that I want
to be part of my Xsan system.
You then enter the serial
numbers for those machines.
Because you've bought a
separate Xsan box for each one,
you'll have a separate serial number.
You'll have a separate serial number
to enter each of those machines.
And then you choose whether you want
them to be clients or controllers.
And for the controllers,
you decide their failover priority.
You can actually make
them all controllers.
If a machine is a backup
controller just in standby,
even if it's normally used
as a client editing system,
there's really no problem with that.
Unless it actually becomes a controller,
just because it's set
as a backup controller,
there won't be any
performance degradation.
And the license.
The license allows,
once you've installed Xsan on a system,
you can either make it a
client or a controller.
It's your choice.
Once you've done that,
you need to configure the storage.
Basically, this is you decide how many,
which volumes you want,
what the storage pools
in each volume are,
and then what LUNs are part of
each of those storage pools.
And then once you've done that,
you basically select the
volume and tell the controller
to start up on that volume.
And as soon as the controllers start up,
the volume is available
to be mounted on clients.
So at this point, oh actually no,
a few other things it does.
In addition to setting up the volumes,
you can set up certain
administrator notifications.
You can set up email or pager
notifications if storage pools fill
up or you have certain failures
and users exceed their quotas.
You also can mount and unmount
volumes on each of the clients.
You can see whether clients
currently have the volume mounted.
You control when they mount
and unmount the volumes.
You can do this all from
the one centralized place.
You can set the user
quotas or group quotas.
You can view logs on the various systems.
And you can create the
folders with affinities,
as I said before.
So now we'll have a demo of the
various admin functionality.
Good morning, everyone.
You all got your Xsan
developer preview CDs,
and hopefully you installed
it and tried to play with it.
But unfortunately, without a SAN,
it's not terribly interesting.
Now, I have a SAN here set
up for your enjoyment,
and I'm going to make the lights blink,
and I'm going to make everything happy.
The first thing to do when
setting up your Xsan system is to
determine which computer is going
to be your metadata controller.
So let's go ahead and set this guy.
So we entered the serial number before,
because I don't think you want
to watch me type in the serial
number on all these computers.
We set the role to be controller,
and if we had multiple controllers,
we could choose the failover priority.
Also, since you want to be on a
private metadata network,
if you have a dual-nick machine
or multiple Ethernet cards,
you could choose the
role to be controller.
So you can choose which interface to
access the SAN easily right there.
And here's some information about
the computer to help choose which
machine you want to be the controller.
Next, you move on to your LUNs.
All you need to do with your
LUNs is give them a name.
All the information before is defined
by your RAID admin configurations.
So you can just rename that there.
And here's really where the fun part is.
You take your storage,
and to create your storage,
you need to define your first volume.
So we'll go ahead and create volume,
and we'll name this WWDC volume.
And you can change things like the log
size and the max number of connections
you want to access to the SAN.
Now, the block allocation size is an
important field to pay attention to,
and it goes in power
of 2 from 4K to 512K.
And that is a performance
tuning parameter that,
depending on your typical IOS size,
you may need to tweak.
And if you need to know more
about any of these values,
and you'll see some more coming up,
we have help buttons
in all of the sheets,
and it'll bring up contextual
help for every single one of them.
single field.
We create our first storage pool,
simply the same way.
Let's make that pool one.
Let's say we want it to be an exclusive
metadata and journaling storage pool,
so other data won't
interfere with that traffic.
Stripe breadth is another
important performance tuning value.
If you have multiple LUNs
in your storage pool,
this is how many bytes it will write to
each LUN before moving on to the next.
We don't need to change this here because
the metadata pool will only have one LUN.
So now that we've done that,
we bring up our little drawer with LUNs,
and I have a pre-configured LUN.
This is just by naming it.
That's all you have
to do to configure it.
Drag, drop, there's your metadata.
And actually,
we can come back here and call
this MDE so you know it's metadata.
Now we create another storage
pool for all of our data.
Come in here, we'll call this Video Data.
And we want to ensure that no journaling
and metadata spills over to interfere
with our high-definition video or SD or
whatever we happen to have on here.
And we can change our strike
breadth to 128 blocks.
And this size here, 512K,
is how many bytes it writes.
And the size here also depends
on the block allocation size
you define in your volume.
And you can change multi-path methods.
You can change the size of your data
set and permissions and other stuff.
And the help will tell
you all about that.
So let's skip this disk here
because it's not the same.
Drag all that in.
There you go.
We've configured a 6.84 terabyte,
actually 7.29 terabyte
SAN in about a minute.
And that's all you need to do.
Okay, so we have a SAN setup
before with some files,
so we're just going to revert.
And you can see here we
have the metadata pool.
We have a small audio pool because we
don't need as much bandwidth for audio.
And we have our SD video, our high def,
and our post-production.
So let's move over here.
Here you can see all of our storage
pools and you can see a snapshot
of the currently running volume.
Each of these will fill up to show you
how full each storage pool is to know
when you need to grow your storage.
In the Logs tab,
you can get all the relevant logs on
all of the machines on the SAN and you
can even filter for certain things.
In the Clients tab,
you can mount and unmount.
You can mount them all at the same
time if you really feel so inclined,
or unmount at the same time.
And over in Affinities,
we can set up all the affinities.
And in Quotas, you can create quotas,
delete quotas, and it's really simple.
You just go ahead and you drag in users,
and this is all LDAP integrated,
so if you have a directory server,
you'll see all the records there.
You can drag in stuff here,
set the quota, 10 megabyte soft quota,
probably 10 gigabyte soft quota,
20 gig hard quota,
and give them 24 hours.
And then go ahead and hit save,
and it would send it out.
And if you actually
had some data in here,
the quota status would show how full,
how close they are to
their soft or hard quota,
or if they're even
above their soft quota.
And that's Xsan Admin.
So basically we've shown
you what the admin does.
If you're familiar with Mac OS X Server,
you'll notice that it
looks awfully familiar.
And that's because basically
we leverage the same technology
as we did for the server admin.
The main difference is
in the server admin,
its main goal was to connect to a
server and administer that one machine.
Even though you could administer
multiple machines from the admin,
each was considered to be a
sort of separate unit in the UI.
The Xsan admin sort of treats the
whole SAN as a particular entity.
So you saw that when
you're administering it,
you're administering the
entire SAN at the same time.
Basically,
the server admin agent is going to
run on each of the Xsan machines,
both controllers and clients.
The Xsan admin is going to
take control of the entire SAN.
It's going to take care of
replicating your configuration
files around between the machines.
So it's particularly important
between the primary controller
and backup controllers that they
have the same configuration.
If the backup controller thought the
volumes were arranged differently,
that wouldn't be a good idea.
So it'll make sure that the
configurations are all the same.
It'll be able to monitor the
status of the machine so you can
quickly look up and see which
machines are currently active,
which ones have volumes mounted.
And it'll contact machines as
necessary to perform its functions.
It's sort of behind the scenes.
It establishes connections.
In addition to the admin app,
we do provide a set
of command line tools.
As I said,
we try to keep the admin app streamlined,
so in certain cases there's additional
functionality available in the
command line tools that we don't
actually surface through the admin.
All the tools live in one place
inside library file systems.
There's an Xsan folder, and inside there,
there's a binaries folder.
That's also where config
files live and other things.
The tools will all be documented.
However, if you look at the documentation
on the concurrent CD,
they aren't there.
There are actually man files, though,
on the install that you can look at.
But we'll try and come up with some
better documentation for these.
Here's an example of a few of these.
CV Admin is sort of the main tool.
It's the one we used a lot when
we were still developing the
user interface because it does a
lot of the same functionalities.
It's one of those sort of
interactive command line admin tools.
You can start and stop the controller
and do a lot of the various functions.
CV Affinity is the one that
you can use if you want finer
control over the affinities.
The admin only allows you to set folders
and everything in that folder is set.
The folder will have
a particular affinity.
If you want to set affinities on
particular files or see what the
affinity on a file is currently,
you can use the CV Affinity tool.
CVFS Check is the normal FS Check style
utility for the Xsan volume.
Actually, if you bring up Disk Utility,
you'll be able to click on the volume
and do a normal verifier repair,
and it'll call this
tool behind the scenes.
But if you want to have
scripts or whatever to run it,
the tool is available.
The final one is the Defrag
tool that was mentioned.
So the Defrag tool can be used
to defragment your file data.
It does have one particular
extra utility that can be useful.
Sometimes during data flow stuff,
you might, for instance,
ingest a file into one storage
pool because it has particular
performance criteria,
but then later on you might want to
access it using different RAID LUNs
so that you can ingest new files.
S&FS Defrag can be used to migrate
the storage for a file from one
storage pool to another without
affecting where it appears in the file.
So, again, the Defrag tool can be used to
migrate the storage for a file from
one storage pool to another without
affecting where it appears in the file.
We mentioned the cross-platform
setup with the StoreNext file system.
Just wanted to quickly go through
and sort of show how easy that is.
There's two scenarios.
Adding the StoreNext clients
to the Xsan system.
First of all, you're going to set up
your Xsan system normally.
You're going to get a license
for your StoreNext clients.
That'll actually get installed
on the Xsan controller.
And then you're going to just set up
your StoreNext clients the way you would
normally do for a StoreNext system.
There's basically some information
you just need to enter into
a couple of config files.
The trickier one is when you
want to add an Xsan client
to a StoreNext file system.
Our admin software basically is
written to administer the Xsan client.
It's the entire Xsan environment,
and so it doesn't really understand
a single Xsan client connecting to
some other type of SAN file system.
So in this case, you're going to need to
administer the SAN manually.
Luckily, it's fairly easy to do.
The main thing is you have
to add your serial number
manually to the config file.
And then there's just
a couple other files,
mainly the controller addresses to
tell it how to contact the controller.
So that's all quite straightforward,
and it'll be fully documented.
in the documentation.
So now I want to talk a bit about sort of
how these volumes appear to applications.
The first thing that is important
is that it is a shared volume.
Pretty much, though,
in terms of writing and
testing applications,
it's going to be just like a
network file system in that way.
The only issue you may run
into is you do find sometimes
there are certain apps that,
because of performance considerations,
aren't used to running
on network volumes.
I mean,
if you've got something that basically
ingests high-definition video,
there aren't that many file servers
that are able to handle that bandwidth.
And so it may not be used to
running on a shared file system.
So it is important to make sure that
the applications are doing file locking.
You can also be managed
sort of at the user level,
but it's better if the application
itself does the coordination
to make sure another copy isn't
going to stomp on your data.
The file system supports the normal calls
that would be done through Mac OS X.
You have both the file open flags,
the shared lock and exclusive lock,
as well as the F set lock,
F control for doing byte range locking.
This is commonly referred to
as POSIX locks and BSD locks.
Also, the open deny modes in Carbon get
translated into these the same
way as they would for NFS volume.
The other thing to be aware of,
of course,
is that these volumes are very large.
I mean,
X-rayed volumes are already quite large,
but the SAN volumes are going
to be built up even larger.
I mean, multi-terabyte volumes,
as you saw,
it's really easy to build up these big
volumes because there's a tendency to
try and consolidate all your storage,
even if you've got a bunch of different
RAID boxes into one big volume.
So, in writing software,
that's an important consideration,
that as well as having very big files,
if you have these huge volumes,
you're going to have, you know,
possibly many millions
of files on this volume.
And so, if you're writing backup
software and so forth,
you need to be aware that things
tend to get grouped into larger
volumes than they may have otherwise.
[Transcript missing]
But the file I/O is going to
be going directly to the RAID,
so in that case it shouldn't be
any different than if you had
a locally mounted RAID volume.
So now I'm going to talk
about a few APIs you can use.
Certainly, it's expected that you'll
start to have server clusters
that'll be using the Xsan,
and so server apps may want to take
advantage of some of these features.
Distributing computing apps
and then certainly multimedia
apps is a very strong focus.
So, three APIs I'm going to highlight.
I'll mention a couple other minor ones,
but the extent preloading,
the infinities,
and then the bandwidth reservation
that Tom mentioned earlier.
The APIs all use a similar mechanism.
They're specific to Xsan volumes.
They're going to be
accessed through syscontrol,
but basically we have some sample
code that sort of helps you call it,
because the actual glue
code is a bit gross.
And the other thing to note is
that the API is still in flux,
so we provide some sample code on the CD,
but if you compiled
using that sample code,
you would need to recompile before
the final shipping version comes out.
So, it's there.
It's there just to try out the
APIs and see how they work,
but we'll be seeding final
APIs closer to the ship date.
And then the last thing is,
because these are Xsan-specific APIs,
you should use StataFS to
determine whether this is an
Xsan volume you're talking to.
Here's some easy code, basically.
Just going to call StataFS on the file,
and the FS type name
will be unique to Xsan.
We actually have a constant in
the header that you can compare.
against.
So here's an example of the typical
sort of lovely SIFS control call.
You've got your structure that you're
going to pass down into the kernel,
and it's going to get filled
out and then passed back up.
This is an easy call in that it's
just getting some version information.
The other thing about this API is
you always need an open file
descriptor to make the call.
Obviously, in version information,
you don't really care what's not
particular to an individual file.
So a common thing to do is to just
open up the root directory of the
file system and make a call on that.
But this particular call will return
the same information no matter what
file descriptor it's called against,
as long as that's for a
file on an Xsan volume.
So the load extents call,
the key here is when you open a file
and start reading and writing it,
the file system is going to react
to your calls as you make them.
In my example, you saw there's the
write file system call.
The file system needs to go out,
ask the metadata controller
where this file lives before it
can start writing the data out.
But because you have that latency in
talking to the metadata controller,
you may have a hiccup in terms
of the reading and writing.
The load extents call can tell this
system up front that you're going to be
reading or writing these offsets for this
particular file and tell it to go ahead
and get all that information up front.
So when you're actually doing the I/O,
you don't have any of the latencies
of talking to the controller.
So the affinities,
the thing here is often you don't
want the layout on the file system
to necessarily reflect where
things are stored in storage pools.
A common example of this is you
might have a project folder.
That project folder could contain
audio files and video files,
but as far as the user is concerned,
they want all these files grouped
together in a single folder.
But as far as the system is concerned,
you may want to store the audio
files on a different storage
pool than the video files.
The most efficient way,
because configuring that all sort of by
hand could be a very complicated thing,
applications can take advantage
of this because they know what
types of files they're saving
out and what the characteristics
of those files are going to be.
So we're going to have a demo of this.
I have a demo of this.
Alright,
so I'm going to demo Affinity Steering.
So I'll open up my demo app.
Sorry, I don't have an icon.
So we'll create a file called my file,
and we're going to put it in the
post-production storage pool.
So I'm going to go ahead and start that.
And you can see it's
writing at reasonable speed,
so we'll get an initial burst of
speed as it fills the RAID cache,
but then it will level out.
And if you can see the lights over here,
you should see one LUN being pegged.
Now, if we start up a second file,
say this is our video file,
video file.mpeg, and we store that, say,
in high def, we start that up,
we should be pegging two different LUNs,
or two different storage pools.
And it should be going much faster,
which it is.
Now,
if you go ahead and look in our volume,
it was stored in project files,
they're both sitting
right next to each other.
And that is Affinity Steering.
Greg?
So one of the points on that demo was,
you know, basically we wanted to show the
difference between the storage pools,
but we only have one fiber
channel connected up to the
system and didn't really tune it.
So don't take those performance
numbers as typical performance numbers,
but we just wanted to show the
ways in which an application can
talk to the different storage.
Basically, how it's going to do that is
first it needs to find out what
storage pools are available.
Early on,
we called storage pools stripe groups,
so that's still reflected in the API,
get SG info.
It's going to give you information
about the stripe groups,
so theoretically an application might be
able to do some intelligent figuring out
of which stripe group it wants to use.
The other thing that's
probably more common is to do
what we did in the demo app,
which is basically just present a pop-up.
So one of the points on that demo was,
you know, basically we wanted to show the
difference between the storage pools,
but we only have one fiber
channel connected up to the
system and didn't really tune it.
to the user to choose which
storage pool they want.
In the API,
it's also going to give you an
8-byte key for that storage pool.
That's what you actually
use in the setAffinity call.
So, normally, you would open a file,
create the file using open,
set the affinity on the file,
and then start writing it.
The other thing you can do,
what we did actually in this app,
was call allocExtentSpace,
which will pre-allocate
the space for the file,
load the extents into the client,
and then allow you to start writing out,
and that gives you the
highest performance writing.
So the next thing I wanted to talk
about is bandwidth reservation.
Basically, I mean,
Tom described this pretty well.
For the people that weren't here,
I'll try my little vague thing.
Basically,
the idea here is that when you're
doing a critical operation,
you can't necessarily control what other
people are going to be accessing the SAN.
So if you've got your ingest station,
and it's really critical that you
get your high-definition video,
you know,
streamed onto there without any hiccups,
you don't want somebody else coming
up and just starting to stream some
other file on or off that same storage
pool and mess up the bandwidth.
So basically,
this is a way for applications to
guarantee that they're going to get
a particular amount of bandwidth.
If somebody else launches something...
If somebody else launches something where
they don't care about the performance,
it'll just get scaled back.
If somebody launches an
application that's also demanding
the critical performance,
they'll get an error saying, "Look,
this is already in use.
This amount of bandwidth
has already been reserved,
so there isn't enough left for you
to do your application." This is
basically used for streaming,
especially real-time streaming,
and it's per storage pool because,
as I said earlier, if somebody's writing
to one storage pool,
it's per storage pool because,
as I said earlier, if somebody's writing
to one storage pool,
it's per storage pool because,
as I said earlier, if somebody's writing
to one storage pool,
it doesn't affect the I/O to
another storage pool anyway.
So you're reserving bandwidth
on a particular storage pool,
and people reading or writing
other storage pools won't be
affected by the reservation.
So we'll have a demo of this.
All right, so we're going to use
the same application.
And say we have a video
file and an audio file.
And we're going off and writing
those to the same storage pool,
high def.
Now,
say we want 120 megabytes per second.
And unfortunately,
we're sharing it at about 80 or 90
megasecond over the single fiber channel.
And go ahead and attempt
to reserve bandwidth here.
And that will jump up while
the other one goes down.
And this is being written to
the exact same storage pool.
And they're still sitting
right next to each other.
But one is getting more
bandwidth than the other,
as much as we had configured it to need.
And there you go.
That is bandwidth reservation.
So bandwidth reservation is the one
feature that only works if applications
support it because the application has
to tell the system what file it is that
they want to reserve bandwidth for and
how much bandwidth needs to be reserved.
The other thing about it is that it
requires additional configuration that
we don't support in the admin API.
It's pretty simple.
Basically, the system,
when you configure the volumes,
it isn't able to determine
what the throughput to your
varied storage pools is.
It's a very hard thing to
determine programmatically.
There's a lot of variables involved.
So you just need to run a simple test,
run an app like the one we just had,
find out what the throughput
to your storage pool is,
and just enter that field
into the configuration file.
And then it'll know, basically,
how much is able to be
reserved off of that.
Another important thing you can add
is to tell it how much you don't
want to be able to be reserved.
As you saw,
once somebody makes a reservation,
the rest of the performance is
going to drop way down to allow
the person to have that bandwidth.
It's critical that you don't have
everybody else drop to zero and have
one person reserve the entire bandwidth,
because that can lead to dead
locks and other problems.
So at a minimum,
the system leaves one megabyte per second
free that other people can at least
do very slow I/O to that storage pool.
But under certain circumstances,
you may actually want to increase that.
So there's another field to determine
the non-reservable part of the bandwidth.
So the call is basically
set real-time I/O.
The idea is that you're going to put
the storage pool into real-time mode.
That means that basically once
a client has loaded the extents,
normally it's just doing the file I/O.
As I said,
it usually doesn't even care whether
the metadata controller is still around.
It's doing its file I/O.
It's happy.
But once you've put the storage
pool into real-time mode,
it goes out and tells all the clients
that are using the storage pool that
they now need to make requests for I/O.
So each client will
then ask the controller,
say basically,
"I want to do I/O to this storage pool."
The controller will give it a token,
allowing it to do a particular amount
of I/O for a certain time slice,
depending on how many
clients are asking for I/O.
It'll parcel out different amounts
of I/O to the different clients,
and it'll balance that sort of
dynamically as time goes on.
The important thing is that the person
who's reserving the bandwidth is,
when they make the call,
they're going to specify a file
descriptor that's going to be used for
the performance-critical operation.
And that file descriptor,
it will not be limited.
You'll be able to make
reads and writes freely.
It's going to be a file descriptor
that's going to be used for the
performance-critical operation.
There's actually another
call you can make.
If you want to have
multiple file descriptors,
you can make another call to enable
multiple file descriptors to be ungated.
That's basically my session.
You saw how Xsan can allow you to
configure your LUNs together in a much
more flexible way and get the performance
to all of them out to various clients.
The important points I want to make
are that it is a shared file system.
That's a very important thing that
applications need to be aware of.
And that there are these APIs available
to add additional value to applications
if you're running on an Xsan system.
And then I think we will have Q&A.
Oh, well, more information.
Basically, these are the documents that
are available on the CD.
And then I think Tom is going
to come back up for Q&A,
or Eric.